---
layout: post
title: "on a journey to become a heathen"
date: 2025-08-13 03:29:21 +0530
tags: [travel]
math: false
---

this began probably last year, when Deepak introduced me to a tiny Tamil hamlet and a former Danish fort - Tranquebar (or as it is now called _Tharangambadi_)

in the few blogs i saw, the place felt like a time machine. the fort was of a size of a sarkari [bangla](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bungalow) and the houses felt like a [Malgudi Day's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malgudi_Days_(TV_series)) episode (i'm a big hoe for old school Tamil houses). [one](https://travelshoebum.com/2017/11/15/danish-delight-in-india-tranquebar-tharangambadi/) of the blogs had a warning, where the traveler ended up in Karaikal due to a miscommunication.

armed with all this information, we did not yet set out for a journey. we went on about our lives.

in early june, i was back in hyderabad. recovering from a back injury. in august, we had a bunch of long weekends and thanks to [Varalakshmi Vratam](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Varalakshmi_Vratam) we decided to see the fort.

## 12604

the Hyderabad showers had made it tough for us to reach the station, but we did eventually make it thanks to the Hyderabad Metro and a good cabbie. the newly minted [Charlapalli](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charlapalli_railway_station) station felt something close to a small village airport in Finland. we decided to get coffee, but as we had limited time, we gave up on the coffee which had paid for. we made a dash towards the train and moments after getting in, the train started moving.

our coach was definitely not an [LHB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LHB_coach) coach reminding of good ol' Indian Railways 3A coaches. the fellow travelers included some Telugu folk. perhaps some were like us, [corpos](https://cyberpunk.fandom.com/wiki/Corporate#:~:text=Corporates) and some were not. we had RAC tickets, so were sharing the lower berth. 

we did get to see [Bhuvanagiri](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhongir) and as we went past it both of us started feeling famished. that is when we decided to take a look at the irctc e-catering service. with some troubles with their webapp and our order getting cancelled, we had to reorder. this time the order went through and we were supposed to collect to it at [Nellore](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nellore). 

while we waited for the food, we stood by the train doors, looking at the moon and red Guntur chilli farms (at least that is what we think it was, courtesy google maps) on our way to Chennai


## Chennai

the fiery biryani in Nellore had meant a good night's sleep, we rose at dawn and 12604 was now at [MAS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chennai_Central_railway_station). 

my broken phone need a charge as the duplicate screen that I had installed just before the journey was draining the battery even when the phone was shut. we could see some birds and the [JLN stadium](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nehru_Stadium,_Chennai) from the station. 

the battery had enough charge now to get the phone to breathe, that is when we decided to make a move. with some bags in the cloak room it was time to make a move.

Vignesh had recommended Mylapore as place to visit, the [Kapaleeshwarar Temple](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kapaleeshwarar_Temple) and the Marina beach. we decided to get down at [Teyanampet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teynampet) and took an auto to Mylapore. the auto driver warned us that we would need to pay more than what the app had showed. this was a bit odd, we could not figure out as to whether this was due to us not knowning the language or was it a Chennai thing (later Vignesh would let us know that it is a norm in the city). we were in dire need of coffee and had a coffee kadai as our destination.

as the luck would have it, where the auto had left us, there was some [CMRL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chennai_Metro_Rail_Limited) construction work going on. we meandered some and then realized that the construction meant we needed to go find another coffee kadai. through the wide streets of Mylapore and past some huge houses inhabited by former govt. employees and one old cardiologist, we reached a Madras Coffee House on the Luz church road that we had spotted while in auto. the coffee was sweet and the samosa was...well different.

we then started looking at some cafes, [The Mayflower](https://maps.app.goo.gl/g7AkzX6BFMJWdKA27) is something which caught our attention. the sun was out now, but the weather was still pleasant. walking past another series of upper-middle class houses and a beautiful kerala resto, we reached the The Mayflower only to find out that it had a huge sack of supplies in front of the entrance and they still had not opened up for the day.

on our way, luckily there was another cafe with a brick coloured building. this was [Bask by Coffee?](https://maps.app.goo.gl/SWREYsc4H144H6Py7). it had a curious "Saleem's Since 1977" board outside, which we later found out was referring to the famous Saleem's of Delhi (that's the eatery owned by [Huma "Saleem" Qureshi's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huma_Qureshi) family).

the meeting never happened, we worked on a blog, enjoyed the coffee and bagel there. the crowd comprised of a small group of hindi-speaking folks, gentle north-eastern staff and mainly chennaivaasis.

next stop was going to be the Kapaleeshwarar Temple, but it was only after sitting in the auto and consulting with Vignesh we realized that the diety would be resting for the afternoon. nonetheless, we got down near the temple and again we were asked to pay Rs. 20 more than what the app had suggested. 

we found a man trying to rent out a scooty for the day and reminding us that the temple was closed. after refusing, we set out towards was serene alleys beside the temple. the temple pond was as big as the temple, a beautiful sight. gopuram had us excited too, although it felt POP-ed in recent repairs. walking through the streets we saw a calm lane along the _Kutchery_ road, near the [Mylapore Police Station](https://maps.app.goo.gl/zhf8rZfRmUvkwzXR7). the tiny houses besides the temple are worth mentioning, traditional gable-roofs with clay tiles, a great sight!

we then traced our steps back, to find a filter coffee spot. unfortuneately, every spot that people had been recommended to us was closed. a restaurants the corner grabbed our attention, it was luckily open. we had reached Mylapore's [Ratna Cafe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ratna_Cafe). Vignesh had mentioned that they are famous for sambar. we later learnt the cafe was run by a family from north, originally from Mathura, UP, that probably explained the scrumptious samosas at the entrance of the restaurant. we decided to hog on "meals" (this is what the people in north would call a _thali_). we got unilimited amount of poriyal, kesari, rice, potato chips, tayir, rasam, and sambar. 

we had by then, decided to go to [Higginbotham's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Higginbotham%27s). this is India's oldest bookstore in existence. read up on its interesting story! we had a young auto driver pick us up, playing a mix Ilaiyaraaja and western songs, swiftly taking us through lanes of Mylapore and past the [Vivekanada College](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramakrishna_Mission_Vivekananda_College).

having spent some time going through books and unsuccessfuly looking for Tamarind City by [Bishwanath Ghosh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bishwanath_Ghosh_(writer)), we decided to catch the metro from the LIC metro station (right opposite the LIC office housed in builiding, which at some point in time was the [tallest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LIC_Building) in the country). 

the metro ride to the railway station was unremarkable, we got our bags from the cloakroom and headed back for the CMBT [stand](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chennai_Mofussil_Bus_Terminus). while we were supposed to get down, there was confusion which was resolved by a fellow traveller, for the bus terminal one should get down at CMBT not Koyambedu (that's for the market). at CMBT, we stood for the bus to Pondicherry. there were a few buses with ECR and புதுச்சேரி written on them. when we prompted the group of drivers and bus conductors in English for details about the bus, we were told (or what we understood) that one of the buses that stood will depart for Pondicherry around 7:00 pm. well that was not the case, there was a bus that departed at that time, but not the one that we thought would. rather a bus came and people flocked towards it, queueing up before we realized that it was a bus which would go to Pondicherry. we could not find a seat in that bus. this was a classic case of miscommunication. by the time another bus came, we had the Tamil letters for "P" and "Y" memorised and had spent some time despartely looking for BlaBlaCars. this time, we were able to squeeze through the sea of people trying to board. a tore my t-shirt but we did make it. 

the journey to Pondicherry started slow, we were sweating as the bus was ploughing through Chennai traffic while picking up passengers. it took us more than one hour to reach the Guindy and IIT Madras. once we were on [ECR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East_Coast_Road), the journey was relatively smooth. we had downloaded the Tamarind City e-book, read up on how the city of Chennai came into being and what as bemusing was how random the origin of the city was! had that one bullet gone through, Clive wouldn't have lived and maybe the course of history would have been differently and Chennai would not be Chennai. 

the bus was now flying through dimness of the night on ECR, some passengers had to sit on the floor of the bus. we could not get a sight of [MAPS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Madras_Atomic_Power_Station) in the night. we slept for sometime, the bus had then stopped for tea, we got down and had some. in a matter of an hour, we were in now in Kalapet. this was familiar territory for me, having spent some time at Pondicherry University where i found myself in Chinna (little) Kalapet.

by that time we had got a call from our hostel, asking for our whereabouts. as Pondicherry sleeps early, getting to the hostel from where were to get down was going to be problem. but before that, getting down itself was a problem. in the excitement of reaching of the reacing our desitnation, we failed to notice that we getting down a few hundred meters before the junction that leads to Auroville, where our hostel was. two Tamil women, who got down with us, were asking us not to get down but the bus conductor did not flinch and when we got down, I had realised that we closer to Bommayapalayam than we were to the junction. after taking the walk to to junction, we had to ask the hostel to arrange for an auto, which they thankfully did and the auto arrived in less than 15 minutes

there it was, an eventful day and we had made it to [goSTOPS](https://share.google/LhDTVA2sX1mlIsqKQ). this was my first time at any goSTOPS. the Assamese receptionist welcomed us with warmth. he enquired about Deepak's association with the north-east. we sat on the terrace for a while and failed to determine that the dorm restroom had a sliding door not a hinged one!

## Pondicherry

we decided to freshen up, having determined that the dorm restroom had a sliding door. took random stroll on the road which had lead us to the hostel, last night. we found an old woman, which we later realised was possibly selling [koozh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Koozh). but we were in dire need for, as you would have guessed, filter coffee. 

well...we did not find it, but we got a call for our scooter rental. the guy was at the hostel. we rushed back and completed the formalities. negotiating a lower price did not work out. we were going to pay Rs. 500, per day!

the first stop for the day was going to be the gas station (or as locals call it "petrol bunk"). we decided to drive through the scenic road that merges with ECR closer to the university. after refueling, it was time to show Deepak the university beach. 

while there were only a few people around, we could see families with faces covered in colours (possibly celebrating a festival related to [Mariamman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mariamman)). there were two photographers, capturing these Tamil families chilling and enjoying the waves. it was treat to watch! we decided to dip our feet in water too, only to realise that the waves do not cares, so we got our t-shirts wet too!

on our way back, we decided to finally get some filter coffee from [Quickpick](https://share.google/bvBAh5m6s3VxRZdey), right outside the university entrance. this reminded me of my days in university, it was my favourite spot for coffee.

as we wanted to explore the white town, we decided to drive into the city. another scenic ride, roughly 15 km from where we were on the ECR.

upon reaching the city, we decided to cover as many local spots as we can (trying to spend carefully on cafes). these were:

- Pondicherry Museum and Art Gallery
- Police Museum
- Promenade Beach stroll
- [Sacred Heart Basilica](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basilica_of_the_Sacred_Heart_of_Jesus,_Pondicherry)
- KBS Kofi Barr (Bussy street)

we then were reminded that we need to meet this [guy](https://www.brewer-world.com/brewer-talks-breaking-bad-inspired-me-suryakant-singh/). Suryakant works at [Catamaran](https://share.google/g2JJeX51Lm87PrVqd), the first microbrewery in the town. he first met Deepak through a chance encounter, at an airport. they had been interacting on whatsapp for years and this was them meeting after years.

Deepak had, admittedly, forgotten his name, but luckily while asking for our way to rooftop bar, Suryakant mentioned his name. we were frightened intially, about shorts being allowed in the pub. luckily, we had no issues and catamaran had a good.

my man is a passionate brewer, his shirt read: "it is not alcoholism, it is a hobby". he was a biotech once, who later realised application of science is what satisfies him. i asked him about what his family thought that he is doing, he said he faced a lot of resistance first when decided to get a master's in wine, brewing & alcohol technology from [VSI](https://www.vsisugar.com/). 

he gave us a brief tour of his brews, this were the beers that he talked about:

- pondy pils - made from barley, he brewed it in such a way that taste lingers for more time (it is a "pale lager")
- beglian wit - the best, had an orange peel to give it a fresh taste, this was a belgian attempt at german pilsner
- german hefeweizen - german attempt at wheat beer, belgian wit was gaining popularity
- ipa - indian pale ale, this was something 
- cider - familiar apple cider taste, nothing much here
- stout - coffee like but no coffee (has a lot of hops for bitterness), high carbs and high alcohol, this was for labour 

these are just my notes from what he explained, and there is way more the science and stories behind each of these. as both of us were students biology and were listening keenly, i think rather i hope Suryakant had fun explaining the science.

## Tharangambaadi

## Chennai Beach and Back

